**What is your goal with iGEM Toronto? In other words, why do you want to join iGEM Toronto? [1000 characters max]**

For the longest time, I could not understand how or why neural networks worked because it never appeared intuitive to me how a series of nodes connected together has anything to do with intelligent behaviour. In preparation for the racing team interview, I had to tackle this challenge head-on as I wanted to impress the team lead. I learned that networks take an input. The input can vary, but most notably, an array of 784 nodes in grayscale that serves as the image. Then, the input flows down the layers, which initially have random weights, eventually reaching its destination, where it should light up a node with a corresponding feature (e.g. a t-shirt). Then, using a loss function, we can determine how far off the prediction was, backpropagate the error, and create a better network. I'm particularly proud that I'm able to understand neural networks now and explain them effortlessly to others and I hope to continue learning and achieving mastery over more difficult tasks in the future.

**Reflect on a topic you are skilled/knowledgeable in. Please explain a complicated or complex aspect of this topic to someone who is not familiar with it (i.e. a young middle schooler who is just starting to learn about science). [1000 characters max]**

For the longest time, I could not understand how or why neural networks worked because it never appeared intuitive to me how a series of nodes connected together has anything to do with intelligent behaviour. In preparation for the racing team interview, I had to tackle this challenge head-on as I wanted to impress the team lead. I learned that networks take an input. The input can vary, but most notably, an array of 784 nodes in grayscale that serves as the image. Then, the input flows down the layers, which initially has random weights, eventually reaching its destination, where it should light up a node with a corresponding feature (e.g. a t-shirt). Then, using a loss function, we can determine how far off the prediction was, backpropagate the error, and create a better network. I'm particularly proud that I'm able to understand neural networks now and explain them effortlessly to others and I hope to continue learning and achieving mastery over more difficult tasks in the future.

**Tell me about a long-term project you stuck with for at least a year. What kept you committed? [1500 characters max]**

In grade 10, I worked on Lerna, a free math and physics educational platform that hosts interactive notes. Honestly, my initial intention was simply to get into web programming, and since I believed that the best way of learning is through doing, I created Lerna. The first few months were tough and hard to navigate, as I wasn’t aware of the norms and, numerous times used unconventional tools (like create-react-app, which was already deprecated) or struggled to get the app to cooperate (it took me a while to differentiate server and client components). Three years later, I'm still working on Lerna, having recently switched the package manager from pnpm to bun. I stuck with it because I realized that I love programming. The more checkmarks I ticked for a list of subgoals for the website, the more items I would add to the list, and the longer I would spend at my desk every day working on it. This intense passion for doing what I love is what kept me going for so long. It's also what drove me to sign up for difficult tasks on the racing team Scrum board. At iGEM, I'm confident that I will fall in love with my work just like I had with Lerna and work tirelessly - to my own immense enjoyment - at expanding my skills and getting the job done. There is also the added bonus of being able to work with a team, so when I'm struggling with something, I won't be alone and can always reach out for help.

**While iGEM activities take place year-round, iGEM project work continues primarily throughout the summer, and active participation during this period is a core expectation for team members. In light of this, what commitments do you currently have for the summer of 2026? Please include any full-time, part-time and extra-curricular commitments.**

At the moment, I do not have any commitments over the summer except plans to go back to my hometown (Vancouver) and possibly work a full or part-time job.

**Why do you want to join this division and what skills do you bring to the table? How will joining and contributing to this division add value to you personally and professionally?**

I want to join the Dry Lab because it aligns most closely with my interests, which are ML and programming. As a current ML Engineer at the UT Autonomous Scale Racing team, I gained significant experience using PyTorch to implement computer vision models, as I had done to replace the old CNN with the SOTA Deeplabv3 model for obstacle detection and segmentation. This semester, my work will be focused on connecting vision with controls (throttle and steering) in preparation for the RoboRacer competition in June.

To this day, I'm still an avid web developer. My journey began with Lerna, an online learning platform I built with Next.js, Tailwind CSS, Hero UI, and bun. Last summer, I started CommonBlog that used ORMs (Prisma) and PostgreSQL. I believe that my strong foundation in web programming, including by not restricted to my experience with TypeScript, have paved a solid road towards me being a better programmer and a meaningful contributor to iGEM's Drylab team.

I intend to double-major in Statistics and Computer Science, and took CSC148 (87%), STA130 (90%), and CSC165 (pending). CSC148 filled my knowledge gap in Python, strengthening my mastery of the language. STA130 taught me invaluable concepts in statistics relevant to machine learning, like decision trees, sampling, and R (and R Studio). With a strong background in both programming and statistics, I am ready to become a productive member of the iGEM team.

Full portfolio: https://leoduan.com/portoflio.
